is firing from being secret food and
today is our ingredient challenge the
ingredient I've been challenged to use
is tins chickpeas and we're going to be
making a one pan kind of add what you
want curry and I'm going to be using not
some leftovers from my fridge as well
use up as many ingredients as we can
we've got hanging around
I've got quarter of a red onion but you
just use a normal onion I've got some
coriander which looks dead but we're
going to use the stalks and we're going
to use those at the end I've got a
tiller chickpeas Atilla tomatoes I found
some mango chutney lurking in the back
of my cupboard I've got some vinegar
I've got a cauliflower I'm going to use
the leaves as well I've got some ginger
I've got some garlic and I'm gonna use
some spices from line by straw so onions
going to be at the face of our curry I'm
using quarter of a red onion because
that's what we have in our fridge but if
I was starting this from scratch I would
use just one small onion and we're just
gonna chop that up reasonably fine we're
going to use all of it then we're gonna
get some heat into our pan gonna be
quite generous we do want to cook the
onions and then once that's heated up
we're gonna add our onions great
strength in which is a great trick
a pimp in the ginger fine great hunts if
you have a lot greater you kind of spoil
each other and then the same with the
garlic's if you break garlic with the
skin on the skin ends up coming off and
only the garlic goes through the grate
again and there's a garlic puree just
[Music]
straight into our onions and remember
we're trying to get a lovely bit of
color on the onions now once that suits
been away I'm gonna add some bits of
cauliflower and then I'm gonna add my
spices and everything's will be cooked
together for about five to ten minutes
lots of color and my eating other spices
you really wake up their flavor 2400
leaves are absolutely delicious do not
throw them away
now please I'm just going to cut the
main cauliflower smaller pieces stretch
it out break them up
[Music]
so I can see that onions are starting to
caramelize but since I spread the
cauliflower in the pans got a bit dry so
I'm just gonna add a little bit more and
now amazing the most exciting part the
micro
we're going to go with what we're going
to go with for this I'm going to go with
some coriander powder we're going to go
with some cumin seeds
we're going to go with some turmeric and
what else
some cayenne or chili powder and I think
that should be us and then we're going
to finish it when we finish it's going
to finish with some garam masala but so
even our spices and we're just going to
toast our spices off with everything
else so cumin seeds about tablespoon
[Music]
teaspoon coriander powder but you don't
want to use whole coriander seeds is
they're not very nice to eat cumin seeds
or absolutely fine to use whole
coriander seeds or any one brown then i
bought some turmeric which is gonna give
us some really lovely color again i want
to go in with about a teaspoon and then
maybe drop more oil
[Music]
yeah and we're gonna leave back about
another two minutes you see that
vegetables add another two minute to
[Music]
counteract the sweetness and let the
sweet sour
now the last bit about curry before we
leave it simmer for 15 minutes is the
chickpeas in this monitor I'll drain the
chickpeas
[Music]
as well there and this is this is a
really good one for these times do not
do not do not use it to tomatoes without
rinsing everything out so I'm going to
want about 100 mil of water so I'm just
going to add 100 bit of water to the can
give it a good rinse as well everything
[Music]
bring that up to a simmer and I'm gonna
leave it simmering uncovered so tomorrow
stick it we got a lovely thick sauce for
about 15 minutes
I'm gonna see you Mr curry
in about 15 so our curries about halfway
through that smart is getting lovely and
thick and what I'm gonna do is no
chickpeas have softened a bit is I'm
just going to crush a few of them with
my spoon against the side of the pan to
give the sauce a bit more structure and
texture so you want to do many just
maybe like copper tablespoons of the
chickpeas and we're just going to
roughly crush them against the side of
the pan and that's going to help thicken
the sauce a bit so once we've done that
we just stir the crushed chickpeas
through and then in about five minutes
that is going to be perfect our curry
has had its 15 minutes it's lovely and
thick and then now I'm just going to
finish it but there's still loads of
flavor in the stalks
finely chop the school
I'm just going to add those to the curry
lots of lovely fresh coriander flavor
add those with about a teaspoon of garam
masala I like to use garam masala as a
seasoning at the end rather than as a
curry powder the beginning so I'm going
to finish that with TSP garam masala
that gives our one pound chickpea and
cauliflower curry done so that's our
easy chickpea and cauliflower curry done
what can I say about it to make you make
it well it's one pan it's adaptable it's
been good but even though it's being
good you could easily add chicken or
prawns or fish to it it will keep well
in the fridge I mean if the flavors
would even get better after a day or two
you can freeze it you could serve it
with rice we can serve it with a naan
bread you can add much ever vegetables
you have in your fridge knocking around
over you would be delicious in map you
can potato potato through it at the
beginning
so there some squash will do not leave
there it really is super adaptable super
easy so thank you very much
don't forget BT good food calm the only
food website you need if you have any
questions for us at all hashtag ask BBC
good food on our social media channels